### Contents

1. Rename file and it's references
2. Rename a variable(and not only) across the project
3. Navigate to symbol
4. Navigate to file
5. Select the whole code
6. Make your code beautiful
7. Optimize import
8. Find action
9. Local file history
10. Quick fixes
11. Multiple cursors

### 1.Rename file

To rename a file and all it's references you simply have to right-click on the file and then refactor-->rename
<br/>
**Shortcut** - *shift f6*

### 2.Rename symbol

In order to change the name of a variable object or anything else, select the symbol right-click on it and then
refactor-->rename.
<br/>
**Shortcut** - *shift f6*

### 3.Navigate to symbol

In order to navigate to any variable in your code use ***Shift-Ctrl-Alt-N***(windows) or ***Alt-Cmd-O***(mac). Then type
the
name you are looking for.

### 4.Navigate to file

In order to navigate to any file in your project use ***Shift-Ctrl-N***(windows) or ***Shift-Cmd-O***(mac). Then type
the
name you are looking for.

### 5.Select the whole code

To select the whole code in a file press ***Ctrl-A***(windows) or ***Cmd-A***(mac)

### 6.Make your code beautiful

select the code you want to reformat and press  ***Ctrl-Alt-L***(windows) or ***Cmd-Alt-L***

### 7.Optimize import

To optimize imports in a file simply press ***Ctrl+Alt+Shift+L***(windows) or ***Cmd+Alt+Shift+L***(mac)

### 8.Find action

If you can't remember how to call action, for example, navigate by symbol, you can just use one, find action by pressing
***Ctrl+Shift+A***(windows) or ***Cmd+Shift+A***(mac) and typing the action you need.

### 9.Local file history

If you made something stupid in past and now want to return to that point there is a way of doing it through local
history of the file. To open the history right-click on the file then Local History-->Show History

### 10.Quick fixes

Sometimes when pycharm shows you that something is wrong with a part of code by underlining it with the red line, if you
select the problem part and press ***Alt-Enter***, pycharm will show you the list of fixes that might help.

### 11.Multiple cursors

If you will writing multiple identical or similar lines of code you can use multiple cursor be holding *Alt* and
clicking
on the places where you need additional cursor.