# print/input
## print
To output any data to the screen we use the `print()` function. And in brackets you type
what you want to output, if it is a text you have to put it in quotes. 
For example:
```python
print("Hello")
```
#### Output:
```
Hello
```
you can also write text in singular quotes, like that:
```python
print('')
print("")
```
The things we write in quotes in the function `print()` are called arguments,
or parameters.
Command print allows you to write multiple arguments, in that case, you have
to separate them with comas:
```python
print('hello,', 'how are', 'you?')
```
#### Output:
```
hello, how are you?
```
## sep and end
The real syntax of function `print()` looks like that:
```
print(*objects, sep = ' ', end = '\n')
```
where `sep` means what separates objects and `end` is how the output ends:
```python
print('1', '2', '3')
print('1', '2', '3', sep = '@')
print('1', '2', '3', sep = '@', end = '?')
```
#### Output:
```
1 2 3
1@2@3
1@2@3?
```
## input
Now we know how to output any data to the screen, but how to make user input 
something and save the thing he input. To do that we use function `input()`:
```python
print('what is your name?')
name = input()
print('your name is', name)
```
#### Output:
```
what is your name?
Sasha
your name is Sasha
```
In this code we firstly print "what is your name" phrase. after that programm waits for user to 
write his name and press enter, otherwise, it will not continue. Then we give variable `name` value of
the input name and in the end we print that your name is `name`.

Because this code construction is pretty often, you can print a text as a parameter of a function
`input()`, it would look like that:
```python
name = input('what is your name?')
print('your name is', name)
```
But what if you want user to input an integer not a text. In that case you have to make the input
have integer or float or something else data type, you can do it using `int()`, or `float()` 
commands:
```python
age = int(input('what is your age'))
print('your age is', age)
```
#### Output:
```
what is your age?
14
your age is 14
```
In this case you could use default `input()`, but very often you will have to do arithmetical 
with input variables and then giving `input()` correct data types will be necessary. 
## Examples of real usage:
Knowing arithmetical operations and `print`, `input` functions we can
create primitive calculator:
```python
a = float(input("number a:"))
b = float(input("number b:"))
print("a + b =", a+b)
print("a - b =", a-b)
print("a * b =", a*b)
print("a / b =", a/b)
```
In this program we firstly ask user to input two numbers: a and b 
and then making them have float datatype, so we can make arithmetical 
operation with these two variables.
then we print results of these primitive arithmetical operations.